---
title: "Mining the Use of Higher-Order Functions: An Exploratory Study on Scala Programs"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Mining_the_Use_of_Higher-Order_Functions_An_Exploratory_Study_on_Scala_Programs
excerpt: 'In this paper, we investigate the use of higher-order functions in Scala programs. We collected 8,285 higher-order functions from 35 Scala projects in GitHub with the most stars and conducted an exploratory study via answering five research questions of using higher-order functions, including the data scale, the definition types, the definition distribution, the factor that correlates with the function calls, and the devel- oper contribution.'
date: 2020-09-04
venue: 'Empirical Software Engineering (2020)'
---
Abstract
========

A higher-order function takes one or more functions as inputs or outputs to support the gen- erality of function definitions. In modern programming languages, higher-order functions are designed as a feature to enhance usability and scalability. Abstracting higher-order func- tions from existing functions decreases the number of similar functions and improves the code reuse. However, due to the complexity, defining and calling higher-order functions are not widely used in practice. In this paper, we investigate the use of higher-order functions in Scala programs. We collected 8,285 higher-order functions from 35 Scala projects in GitHub with the most stars and conducted an exploratory study via answering five research questions of using higher-order functions, including the data scale, the definition types, the definition distribution, the factor that correlates with the function calls, and the devel- oper contribution. Our study mainly shows five empirical results about the common use of higher-order functions in Scala programs. Our findings are listed as follows. (1) Among 35 Scala projects, 6.84% of functions are defined as higher-order functions on average and the average calls per function show that higher-order functions are called more frequently than first-order functions. (2) In all higher-order functions in the study, 87.35% of definitions of higher-order functions and 90.66% of calls belong to the type that only takes functions as parameters. (3) Three measurements (including lines of executable code, Cyclomatic com- plexity, and warnings in the code style) in higher-order functions are lower than those of first-order functions. (4) Regression analysis on all projects suggests that the number of calling higher-order functions highly correlates with the Cyclomatic complexity. (5) In all projects in the study, 43.82% calls of higher-order functions are written by the same devel- opers who have defined the functions and results show that top 20% authors of higher-order functions favor defining or calling higher-order functions than first-order functions. This study can be viewed as a preliminary result to understand the use of higher-order functions and to motivate further investigation in Scala programs.


<!-- [Download paper here](http://xuyisen.github.io/files/EMSE_Publication-Yisen_Xu.pdf) -->
